#Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. My role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. I'll be able to test my database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to me by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare my results with their expected results.
Project Description

#Dataset

###Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

###Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset I'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

#Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, I create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.
###Fact Table

* songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
        songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

###Dimension Tables

* users - users in the app
        user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
* songs - songs in music database
        song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
* artists - artists in music database
        artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
* time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
        start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

#How to run
1. Run `create_tables.py` in the termial by using the command 
```
python create_tables.py
```
-- This step will create each table and drop each table if it exsits.
-- This step also will generate the insert and select query.
2. Run `test.ipynb` in jupyter notebook kernel to confirm the creation of your tables with the correct columns. Make sure to click "Restart kernel" to close the connection to the database after running this notebook.
3. Run `etl.ipynb` to walk through the develop ELT Processes for each table. Remember to rerun `create_tables.py` to reset the tables before each time you run this notebook.
4. Run `etl.py` in the termail by using the command `python elt.py` to build the ETL pipeline.
5. Run `test.ipynb` in jupyter notebook kernel to confirm the data being inserted into each table.


